README.md, before:

# Zero BTC Screen

Bitcoin (or any other currency) stock price for your RPi Zero

![display](docs/display.jpg)

## Hardware

### Platform

* Raspberry Pi Zero W
* Raspberry Pi 3b+
* Raspberry Pi 4
* Any other modern RPi

### Supported displays

* Waveshare eInk types:
  * epd2in13v2
  * epd2in13v3
  * epd2in13bv3
  * epd2in7
  * epd3in7
* inkyWhat (Red, Black, White)
* Virtual (picture)

## Installation

1. Turn on SPI via `sudo raspi-config`
    ```
    Interfacing Options -> SPI
   ```
2. Install dependencies
    ```
    sudo apt update
    sudo apt-get install python3-pip python3-pil python3-numpy git
    pip3 install RPi.GPIO spidev
    ```

3. Install drivers for your display (you don't need to install both)
    1. If you have a Waveshare display
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/waveshare/e-Paper.git ~/e-Paper
    pip3 install ~/e-Paper/RaspberryPi_JetsonNano/python/
    ```
    2. If you have an Inky wHAT display
    ```
    pip3 install inky[rpi]
    ```
4. Download Zero BTC Screen
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/dr-mod/zero-btc-screen.git ~/zero-btc-screen
    ```
5. Run it
    ```
    python3 ~/zero-btc-screen/main.py
    ```


## Screen configuration

The application supports multiple types of e-ink screens, and an additional "picture" screen.

To configure which display(s) to use, configuration.cfg should be modified. In the following example an e-ink epd2in13v2
and "picture" screens are select:

```cfg
[base]
console_logs             : false
#logs_file               : /tmp/zero-btc-screen.log
dummy_data               : false
refresh_interval_minutes : 15
currency                 : BTC

# Enabled screens or devices
screens : [
    epd2in13v2
#    epd2in13v3
#    epd2in13bv3
#    epd2in7
#    epd3in7
    picture
#    inkyWhatRBW
  ]

# Configuration per screen
# This doesn't make any effect if screens are not enabled above
[epd2in13v2]
mode : candle

[epd2in13v3]
mode : candle

[epd2in13bv3]
mode : line

[epd2in7]
mode : candle

[epd3in7]
mode : candle

[picture]
filename : /home/pi/output.png

[inkyWhatRBW]
mode : candle
```

### Autostart

To make it run on startup you can choose from 2 options:

1. Using the rc.local file
    1. `sudo nano /etc/rc.local`
    2. Add one the following before `exit 0`
   ```
   /usr/bin/python3 /home/pi/zero-btc-screen/main.py &
   ```
   conversely, you can run in `screen` you can install it with `sudo apt-get install screen`
   ```
   su - pi -c "/usr/bin/screen -dm sh -c '/usr/bin/python3 /home/pi/zero-btc-screen/main.py'"
   ```
2. Using the system's services daemon
    1. Create a new service configuration file
       ```
        sudo nano /etc/systemd/system/btc-screen.service
        ```
    2. Copy and paste the following into the service configuration file and change any settings to match your
       environment
       ```
        [Unit]
        Description=zero-btc-screen
        After=network.target
 
        [Service]
        ExecStart=/usr/bin/python3 -u main.py
        WorkingDirectory=/home/pi/zero-btc-screen
        StandardOutput=inherit
        StandardError=inherit
        Restart=always
        User=pi
 
        [Install]
        WantedBy=multi-user.target
        ```
    3. Enable the service so that it starts whenever the RPi is rebooted
       ```
        sudo systemctl enable btc-screen.service
       ```
    4. Start the service and enjoy!
       ```
        sudo systemctl start btc-screen.service
       ```

       If you need to troubleshoot you can use the logging configurations of this program (mentioned below).
       Alternatively, you can check to see if there is any output in the system service logging.
       ```
        sudo journalctl -f -u btc-screen.service
       ```

### Support the project
If you would like to support this project and and keep me caffeinated, you can do it here:

[!["Buy Me A Coffee"](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/assets/img/custom_images/orange_img.png)](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/drmod)

Commit message:

change to use coingecko and set to DAG coin

README.md, after:

All credits go to dr-mod/zero-btc-screen 
This version uses coingecko api - set to Constellation DAG
To configure change currency_id in configuration.cgf
Find coingecko coin ids here https://www.coingecko.com/en/api/documentation at /coins/list

# Zero BTC Screen

Bitcoin (or any other currency) stock price for your RPi Zero

![display](docs/display.jpg)

## Hardware

### Platform

* Raspberry Pi Zero W
* Raspberry Pi 3b+
* Raspberry Pi 4
* Any other modern RPi

### Supported displays

* Waveshare eInk types:
  * epd2in13v2
  * epd2in13v3
  * epd2in13bv3
  * epd2in7
  * epd3in7
* inkyWhat (Red, Black, White)
* Virtual (picture)

## Installation

1. Turn on SPI via `sudo raspi-config`
    ```
    Interfacing Options -> SPI
   ```
2. Install dependencies
    ```
    sudo apt update
    sudo apt-get install python3-pip python3-pil python3-numpy git
    pip3 install RPi.GPIO spidev
    ```

3. Install drivers for your display (you don't need to install both)
    1. If you have a Waveshare display
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/waveshare/e-Paper.git ~/e-Paper
    pip3 install ~/e-Paper/RaspberryPi_JetsonNano/python/
    ```
    2. If you have an Inky wHAT display
    ```
    pip3 install inky[rpi]
    ```
4. Download Zero BTC Screen
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/dr-mod/zero-btc-screen.git ~/zero-btc-screen
    ```
5. Run it
    ```
    python3 ~/zero-btc-screen/main.py
    ```


## Screen configuration

The application supports multiple types of e-ink screens, and an additional "picture" screen.

To configure which display(s) to use, configuration.cfg should be modified. In the following example an e-ink epd2in13v2
and "picture" screens are select:

```cfg
[base]
console_logs             : false
#logs_file               : /tmp/zero-btc-screen.log
dummy_data               : false
refresh_interval_minutes : 15
currency                 : BTC

# Enabled screens or devices
screens : [
    epd2in13v2
#    epd2in13v3
#    epd2in13bv3
#    epd2in7
#    epd3in7
    picture
#    inkyWhatRBW
  ]

# Configuration per screen
# This doesn't make any effect if screens are not enabled above
[epd2in13v2]
mode : candle

[epd2in13v3]
mode : candle

[epd2in13bv3]
mode : line

[epd2in7]
mode : candle

[epd3in7]
mode : candle

[picture]
filename : /home/pi/output.png

[inkyWhatRBW]
mode : candle
```

### Autostart

To make it run on startup you can choose from 2 options:

1. Using the rc.local file
    1. `sudo nano /etc/rc.local`
    2. Add one the following before `exit 0`
   ```
   /usr/bin/python3 /home/pi/zero-btc-screen/main.py &
   ```
   conversely, you can run in `screen` you can install it with `sudo apt-get install screen`
   ```
   su - pi -c "/usr/bin/screen -dm sh -c '/usr/bin/python3 /home/pi/zero-btc-screen/main.py'"
   ```
2. Using the system's services daemon
    1. Create a new service configuration file
       ```
        sudo nano /etc/systemd/system/btc-screen.service
        ```
    2. Copy and paste the following into the service configuration file and change any settings to match your
       environment
       ```
        [Unit]
        Description=zero-btc-screen
        After=network.target
 
        [Service]
        ExecStart=/usr/bin/python3 -u main.py
        WorkingDirectory=/home/pi/zero-btc-screen
        StandardOutput=inherit
        StandardError=inherit
        Restart=always
        User=pi
 
        [Install]
        WantedBy=multi-user.target
        ```
    3. Enable the service so that it starts whenever the RPi is rebooted
       ```
        sudo systemctl enable btc-screen.service
       ```
    4. Start the service and enjoy!
       ```
        sudo systemctl start btc-screen.service
       ```

       If you need to troubleshoot you can use the logging configurations of this program (mentioned below).
       Alternatively, you can check to see if there is any output in the system service logging.
       ```
        sudo journalctl -f -u btc-screen.service
       ```

### Support the project
If you would like to support this project and and keep me caffeinated, you can do it here:

[!["Buy Me A Coffee"](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/assets/img/custom_images/orange_img.png)](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/drmod)
